User Guide Assets Section Part 2. (#1083)
o3de/o3de.org: content/docs/user-guide/assets/pipeline/asset-builders.md

---
linkTitle: Asset Builders 
title: Asset Builders
description: Asset Builders use configurable rules to generate product assets from jobs that are dispatched by Asset Processor in Open 3D Engine (O3DE).
weight: 400
toc: true
---

An **Asset Builder** is a bundle of code that **Asset Processor** runs to generate product assets. Asset Builders can be distributed as Gems and might use third-party libraries to process assets. The **Scene Processing** Gem, for example, contains the Asset Builders that process `.fbx` files, and uses the [Open Asset Import Library](https://github.com/assimp/assimp) to parse `.fbx` files.

{{< note >}}

> The Open Asset Import Library supports [many scene formats](https://github.com/assimp/assimp/blob/master/doc/Fileformats.md). You can experiment with additional formats by editing `o3de/Registry/sceneassetimporter.setreg` and adding additional format extensions to the `"SupportedFileTypeExtensions":` list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Open Asset Import Library supports [many scene formats](https://github.com/assimp/assimp/blob/master/doc/Fileformats.md). You can experiment with additional formats by editing `o3de/Registry/sceneassetimporter.setreg` and adding format extensions to the `"SupportedFileTypeExtensions":` list.

```

{{< note >}}
Create Jobs is a single threaded process. There might be instances where you implement an Asset Builder that does specialized processing for a source asset type that is also supported by other Asset Builders. You might need to examine the source asset to determine if the specialized Asset Builder should process the source asset. In these instances, examining the asset as part of Process Job, and exiting the process early depending on the result, can offer better performance because Process Job is multithreaded. 
{{< /note >}}

### Process Job

> Process Job generates the product asset and product dependencies. The Asset Builder receives a `ProcessJobRequest` from Asset Processor containing info on the source asset to process. The Asset Builder responds with a `ProcessJobResponse`. The function of `ProcessJobResponse` does the source asset processing and returns information about the product assets it creates, including sub IDs and product dependencies.

Reviewer: Seems like something is missing in the final sentence: "The function of ProcessJobResponse does the source asset processing..."

`ProcessJobResponse` places the product assets in a temp directory. Asset Processor moves the product assets to the **Asset Cache** and populates the **Asset Database** and **Asset Catalog** with information it uses to track the product assets, product dependencies, and the jobs that produced them.

> Process Job is multithreaded. Several Asset Builders can run multiple process jobs simultaneously.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Process Job is multithreaded. This means that several Asset Builders can run multiple process jobs simultaneously.

```

---
linkTitle: Asset Builders 
title: Asset Builders
description: Asset Builders use configurable rules to generate product assets from jobs that are dispatched by Asset Processor in Open 3D Engine (O3DE).
weight: 400
toc: true
---

An **Asset Builder** is a bundle of code that **Asset Processor** runs to generate product assets. Asset Builders can be distributed as Gems and might use third-party libraries to process assets. The **Scene Processing** Gem, for example, contains the Asset Builders that process `.fbx` files, and uses the [Open Asset Import Library](https://github.com/assimp/assimp) to parse `.fbx` files.

{{< note >}}

> The Open Asset Import Library supports [many scene formats](https://github.com/assimp/assimp/blob/master/doc/Fileformats.md). You can experiment with additional formats by editing `o3de/Registry/sceneassetimporter.setreg` and adding format extensions to the `"SupportedFileTypeExtensions":` list.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Open Asset Import Library supports [many scene formats](https://github.com/assimp/assimp/blob/master/doc/Fileformats.md). You can experiment with additional formats by editing `o3de/Registry/sceneassetimporter.setreg` and adding format extensions to the `"SupportedFileTypeExtensions"` list.
```

{{< /note >}}

## Anatomy of an Asset Builder

> Asset Builders have three core components; a *Descriptor* for the builder, and handlers for *Create Jobs* and *Process Job* requests. 

Reviewer 2: For consistency with the style you use in Asset Cache:
```suggestion
Asset Builders have three core components: a **Descriptor** for the builder, and handlers for **Create Jobs** and **Process Job** requests.
```

{{< note >}}
Create Jobs is a single threaded process. There might be instances where you implement an Asset Builder that does specialized processing for a source asset type that is also supported by other Asset Builders. You might need to examine the source asset to determine if the specialized Asset Builder should process the source asset. In these instances, examining the asset as part of Process Job, and exiting the process early depending on the result, can offer better performance because Process Job is multithreaded. 
{{< /note >}}

### Process Job

> Process Job generates the product asset and product dependencies. The Asset Builder receives a `ProcessJobRequest` from Asset Processor containing info on the source asset to process. The Asset Builder responds with a `ProcessJobResponse`. The function of `ProcessJobResponse` does the source asset processing and returns information about the product assets it creates, including sub IDs and product dependencies.

Reviewer 2: The last sentence has a grammar issue. Wondering if you meant this.
```suggestion
Process Job generates the product asset and product dependencies. The Asset Builder receives a `ProcessJobRequest` from Asset Processor containing info on the source asset to process. The Asset Builder responds with a `ProcessJobResponse`. The function of `ProcessJobResponse` is to process the source asset and return information about the product assets it creates, including sub IDs and product dependencies.
```
